# 3MT Script

My work investigates whether blockchain technology is the means by which communities can collaborate.

Blockchain technology underpins the cryptocurrency Bitcoin, which is a digital currency with cryptographic capabilities whereby you transfer value by providing a digital signature, making the process somewhat analogous to that of signing a cheque.

Bitcoin first came to prominence through its use for anonymising the purchase of illegal goods. However, despite those somewhat nefarious beginnings, the technology has become increasingly mainstream, due to its meteoric rise in Dollar value, which has led to investor speculation. Blockchains themselves have also garnered much interest because the technology lends itself to some fascinating applications. Why is that? Well, in essence, blockchains are a very capable distributed database, and in our present Information Age, unless, of course, you're Cambridge Analytica, data is King. A blockchain 'database' is formed by blocks of information based on a chain of transactions - hence the name. What's more, the technology is independent of any single (controlling) entity because nodes on a blockchain network are equally privileged and mutually cooperative. Moreover, those nodes have inbuilt capabilities for secure communication. Hence, blockchains include properties desirable for trusted cooperation; in essence, they are the means by which you and I can freely collaborate.

My work looks at demonstrating such usefulness by developing applications in three separate areas. The first area is Financial Technologies. To that end, I wrote a paper whose focus was India's drive to provide banking facilities for the vast proportion of its population who have none. That paper discusses a distributed application that demonstrates the exchange of international currencies, which I argue the Indian Government could have used for exchanging Rupees into Bitcoin, and thereby, banking the unbanked. The second area is digital provenance; in a paper on Fake News and blockchains, I use the example of a picture misappropriated by a prominent supporter of Donald Trump, who falsely claimed it showed the Clinton Campaign doctoring votes. The New York Times went to great lengths to prove the picture was fake, but in the paper, I argue that, if the photographer had used the app' I wrote for proving ownership, the New York Times could have been saved an awful lot of bother. Finally, I am developing a blockchain-based distributed application for increasing the transparency of humanitarian financing. Transparency helps fight corruption because it provides the keys to understand: "why, how, what, and how much". Furthermore, evidence from the UK suggests that such transparency is necessary because humanitarian aid funding receives much criticism, as it's believed that the money is the source of lots of criminality. For example, while giving evidence to a U.S. Senate Committee on foreign relations, ex-UK Prime Minister David Cameron suggested that much of the money goes to corrupt regimes. Fortunately, by making such funding transparent, through recording the whole process on the blockchain, I believe it is possible to address those objections.

However, although those three applications demonstrate that, yes, blockchains do indeed provide the technical capabilities that allow for collaboration that is decentralised and cooperative, I also discuss significant barriers towards the technology's widescale adoption. That's because blockchain's flat (non-hierarchical) collaborative architecture is not necessarily the way in which Capitalist Society currently organises itself. So this is a call to arms. Dear audience, if like me, you believe that inequality is best addressed by challenging our traditional hierarchies, then, similar to how the #metoo campaign has begun to question the patriarchal power structures in the film industry, I believe it is up to all of us to stand up and say: "enough is enough!" Hence, my challenge to you is to leave this room and go and create, participate and collaborate with your peers. Maybe that means volunteering with a charity who provide help to the many homeless we now see in the UK. Or perhaps it's time you acted on that great idea of yours by forming a cooperative that inspires and brings the idea to fruition. Or maybe help out on the development or documentation of that open source graphics package you've been using for all those fantastic community art projects you've created over the years. In essence, my challenge to you is to refute those traditional hierarchical power structures, show that flat and cooperative is best, and Be the Change You Wish To See in the World.      
